Day 1									27 0ctober 2023
Control flow statements
A program’s control flow in the order in which the program’s code executes.
Python has 3 control structures:
	Sequential – default mode
	Selection – used for decisions and branching
	Repetition – used for looping i.e repeating a piece of code multiple times
Sequential
Sequential statements are a set of statements whose execution process happens in a sequence.
Selection
Selection are also known as Decision control or Branching statements
The selection statements allows a program to test several conditions and execute instructions based on which condition is true.
Some of the Decision control statements are:
	Simple if: a simple if only has one condition to check
	if-else:  if-else evaluates the condition and will executed the body of if, if the test condition is true, but if the condition is false, then the body of else is executed.
	nested if: nested if statements are an if statements inside another if statement.
	if-elif-else: the if-elif-else statement is used to conditionally execute a statement or a block of statements
Repetition
A repetition statement is used to repeat a group(block) of programming instructions.
So in Python we have 2 loops/repetitive statements:
	for loop: a loop is used to iterate over a sequence that is either a list, tuple, dictionary, or a set.
	While loop: the while loops are used to execute a block of statements repeatedly until a given condition is satisfied.




Day 2
Introduction to Functions
A function is a reusable block of code that performs a specific task or a set of tasks. Functions are essential concept in programming and play a central role in structuring and organizing code.
So to create a function, you must use the def keyword, followed by the function name and a pair of parantheses.
Using Functions
Function syntax:
def function_name(parameter <,…>:
   #suite
The function_name part is name used to call a function. The parameter part shows that zero or more parameters can be given to a function. The suite part is where the function is coded.
When the return statement is included in the function’s suite, it means a function returns a result, and the return statement can be used to break out of a function.
Three types of functions in Python:
	Ordinary functions: are functions that follow mathematical procedures. They will receive an argument, perform a specific calculation with the argument, and return a result
	Procedure functions: functions that normally do not return a result, they are called to execute a procedure.
	Factory functions: functions that do not take parameters.
Variables that are declared inside a function are called local variables, they are local to the function in which they are declared and cannot be accessed by other functions.
The Random Module
The basic random() function generates a random floating point number as output.
Recursive Functions
Recursion in programming is a method where the solution to a problem depends on the same solution’s result. A recursive function calls itself when it is executed.


Fibonacci recursive function:
This is a Python Function that calculates the Fibonacci sequence using a recursive algorithm. The Fibonacci sequence is a series of numbers where each number is the sum of the two preceding ones, typically 

Day 3 								30 October 2023
Introduction To Modules
A module is a file containing Python code that defines a variables, functions, and classes. Modules allow you to organize your code into separate files, making it more manageable and easier to maintain.
Modules bind the code and reduce the repetitions of functions frequently used in the code. It makes the code much clear and easy to understand.
To create a module, you typically save your Python code in a .py file with the same names as the modele e.g my_module.py
Mechanism of Python Modules
The mechanism of python modules is a fundamental part of how the code is organized and made reusable. Breaking your code into modular units, you can develop more maintainable and efficient Python programs.
Importing Modules
Syntax: import module_name  
       e.g import math
Difference between a module and a package in Python:
Python Module: These are set of pre-defined files that contain the python codes which depict the basic functionalities of class, methods, variables, etc.
Python Package: It is a directory that holds and contains modules and sub-packages.

Day 4							01 November 2023
Introduction to Regular Expressions
Regular expression are compact way of representing a collection of strings. The way  Python communicates and creates expressions is done with re module.
Regexes are used for five reasons:
•	Parsing: Identifying and extracting pieces of text that match certain criteria.
•	Searching: Locating substrings that can have more than one form like:  ‘pet.png’, ‘pet.gif’, ‘pet.mpg’ while avoiding ‘carpet.gif’. 
•	Searching and replacing: find substrings and replace  specified words within the matched strings.
•	Splitting strings: splitting string where a certain character occurs.
•	Validation: checking if the string meets a certain criteria, e.g to check whether an email address is in standard format.
Characters and Character Classes
Regex special characters are: \. ^ $ ? + [] {} (). Then the Pythons escape characters that are also used in regex: \t.
Quantifiers 
Quantifiers in Python are used in regular expressions to specify the number of times a particular character or group of characters should appear in the input text.
Flags
Flags are used to tell the regex how to behave when looking for expressions.

